DG Chester (#341)
AY2122S1-CS2103T-F13-3/tp: docs/DeveloperGuide.md

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## About This Guide

This user guide is intended for developers looking to contribute to TAB.

> It aims to contain all the information required to quickly get a calendar UI into your application. 

Reviewer: Why do we need to specify calendar ui specifically?

> It aims to contain all the information required to quickly get a calendar UI into your application. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It aims to guide developers interested in TAB to have a better understanding of our code base and the different existing features. 
```

In the [Table of Contents](#), each item listed is a link which you can click on to go directly to that section in the guide.

**Conventions Used**

Syntax | Meaning
--------|------------------
`text` | A command, or a code block
<kbd>text</kbd> | A keyboard input, or a button to be clicked on.
[text](#about-this-guide) | Links to other parts of the document, or links to be opened in the browser.
_text_ | A _technical_ word with definitions provided in the [Glossary](#appendix-b-glossary), or a caption for images.
<div markdown="block" class="alert alert-info"> :information_source: </div> | Indication that the following text is a note, which is useful in helping you understand how TAB works.
<div markdown="block" class="alert alert-primary"> :bulb: </div> | Indication that the following text is a tip, which allows you to interact with TAB more effectively and quickly.
<div markdown="block" class="alert alert-warning"> :exclamation: </div> | Indication that the following text is important. Missing it out may impair your user experience and may potentially cause TAB to misbehave!

> 

Reviewer: Do we need tip and warnings in DG? Our aim is to explain our implementation so probably wouldn't need these right?

* Libraries used: [CalendarFX](https://dlsc.com/products/calendarfx/), [Jackson](https://github.com/FasterXML/jackson), [JavaFX](https://openjfx.io/), [JUnit5](https://github.com/junit-team/junit5)
* The `SchedulePanel#createTimeThread()` method was reused with minimal changes from the CalendarFX [developer manual](http://dlsc.com/wp-content/html/calendarfx/manual.html#_quick_start).

```java
private void createTimeThread() {
    Thread updateTimeThread = new Thread("Calendar: Update Time Thread") {
        @Override
        public void run() {
            while (true) {
                Platform.runLater(() -> {
                    calendarView.setToday(LocalDate.now());
                    calendarView.setTime(LocalTime.now());
                });
                try {
                    // update every 60 seconds
                    sleep(60000);
                } catch (InterruptedException e) {
                    e.printStackTrace();
                }
            }
        }
    };
    updateTimeThread.setPriority(Thread.MIN_PRIORITY);
    updateTimeThread.setDaemon(true);
    updateTimeThread.start();
}

> ```

Reviewer: would a link be better instead? To have a code snippet in acknowledgments is pretty weird

How the `Logic` component works:
1. When `Logic` is called upon to execute a command, it uses the `AddressBookParser` class to parse the user command.
2. This results in a `Command` object (more precisely, an object of one of its subclasses, e.g., `AddCommand`) which is then executed by the `LogicManager`.
3. The command can communicate with the `Model` when it is executed (e.g. to add a person).

> 4. The result of the command execution is encapsulated as a `CommandResult` object which is returned from `Logic`.

Reviewer: Can add a note here to say for simplicity, `UndoableCommand` a layer of abstraction between `Command` and its subclasses is omitted? So it is more accurate.

Author: u add :)

* does not depend on any of the other three components (as the `Model` represents data entities of the domain, they should make sense on their own without depending on other components).

The _Sequence Diagram_ below illustrates the interactions when a person, p, is removed from the model.

![Interactions Inside the Model Component for the `delete 1` Command](images/ModelDeleteSequenceDiagram.png)

*Figure A.3.2: Sequence Diagram of Deleting a Person from the Model*

Note that deleting a person in the tuition address book requires
1. removing that person from the `UniquePersonList`
2. removing all calendar `Entry`s related to that person from the `CalendarEntryList`
3. removing all `Tag`s related to that person from the `UniqueTagList`

Working together, the `UniquePersonList`, `CalendarEntrylist`, and `UniqueTagList` manage all of TAB's data.
**All three of these lists must be updated together, whenever a change is made to TAB's data.**

<div markdown="span" class="alert alert-info">

:information_source: **Note:** 
The `UniqueTagList` stores all existing distinct tags created, `Tag` objects with the same tag name may not have the same reference.

> This means that each `Person` object still has its own `Tag` objects and the `Tag` is only added into `UniqueTagList` if a duplicate `Tag` does not already exist in the tag list.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This means that each `Person` object still has its own `Tag` objects and the `Tag` is only added from the `Person` into `UniqueTagList` if an equivalent `Tag` (with the same tag name) does not exist in the tag list.
```

Reviewer 2: also, i think reminder should come before tag since reminder is contained inside `CalendarEntryList` and is also related to the lesson management

behaviour of a 1-to-1 private home tutor. 

To circumvent this problem, [`CalendarEntryList#convertRecurringLessonToEntries(Person, Lesson)`](https://github.com/AY2122S1-CS2103T-F13-3/tp/blob/master/src/main/java/seedu/address/model/lesson/CalendarEntryList.java#L331)
maps `RecurringLesson`s to a `List` of `Entry`s. The aforementioned example lesson would thus be converted to:
1. A first calendar `Entry` that recurs weekly, from 1st Jan to 8th Jan (inclusive);
2. A second calendar `Entry` that recurs weekly, from 22nd Jan to 31st Dec (inclusive).

This effectively "cancels" the lesson that occurs on 15th Jan in the calendar interface.

#### Design considerations

**Aspect: How the calendar interface is implemented:**

* **Alternative 1:**  Create a calendar view using JavaFX.
  * Pros: More customisable as we are not limited by CalendarFX's _API_.
  * Cons: Much more difficult to implement.

* **Alternative 2 (current implementation):** Use CalendarFX to display entries while storing entry data locally.
  * Pros: Less code is written to implement it and the difficulty of implementing a calendar is completely abstracted away.

>   * Cons: There is the initial difficulty in picking up and learning CalendarFX's API, and a risk that it might not work out the way we want it to. We will also be limited to the features of CalendarFX, and any bug or issues will be inevitably find its way into our system as well.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * Cons: 
      1. Learning and familiarizing with a third party library in a relatively short time. 
      2. Risk of incompatibility with our application due to Calendarfx bugs and issues.
```

  * Cons: Each page becomes very small in our GUI, limiting its usefulness for users with smaller screens. Furthermore, we have no choice but to display all four of the default calendarFX pages (i.e., day, week, month and year pages), even if we do not want to.

* **Alternative 2:**  Create our own JavaFX panels for each page for displaying week and month.
  * Pros: Month view will be slightly bigger, increasing the number of entries that can be seen by a small amount. Bugs and inconsistencies in other pages can be avoided as we will have better control what we want to display.
  * Cons: Much harder to implement, no more fancy transitions or inbuilt buttons, and GUI improvements seem marginal at best.

Alternative 1 is our preferred choice as its pros and cons seem much better than alternative 2, especially due to its ease of implementation. The main difficulty of alternative 1 becoming familiar with the CalendarFX _API_, but this difficulty is also present in alternative 2.

> ### Tag list interface

Reviewer 2: would this title be confusing? cus tag list is not an interface in the code

Viewing tag is facilitated by `UniqueTagList`.

- `UniqueTagList` stores a list of alphabetically sorted unique unmodifiable tags with case-insensitive tag names.

> - `UniqueTagList` holds a private field `tagCounter` that maps `Tag` to `Integer`, where `Integer` is the number of persons labelled under each tag.

Reviewer: A class diagram for this would be clearer

Author: @Xiaoyunnn

  - Pros:
    - Quicker retrieval and update of data using a `HashMap` for `tagCounter`.
  - Cons:
    - Each `Person` object has its own set of `Tags` which may be repetitive and memory-consuming if there is a large number of same tags.
    - Retrieval of all tags and calculation of the number of persons labelled under each tag during the initialization of the application requires iterating through all persons in TAB.

* **Alternative 2:** Each tag stores a list of persons or number of persons labelled with that tag.
  - Pros:
    - Faster retrieval of the number of persons under each tag.
  - Cons:
    - This could result in circular dependency since a `Person` keeps reference of a set of `Tags` and a `Tag` has to keep a reference to a list of `Persons` simultaneously.
    - Updating the tags labelled for a `Person` requires modification of the data fields of the `Person`. Since TAB objects are immutable, this means that new copies of `Person` and `Tag` have to be created after every command that modifies the data. This could slow down the application when there is a large amount of data stored.
  

> ### Switching between students, calendar, and tags

Reviewer: Actually if we have time should expand more on this for cases of FliteredList and how we retain the filtered list with `CommandResult` etc.

Author: no time xd

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## **Appendix A: Requirements**

### Product scope

**Target user profile**:

A private 1-to-1 home tuition teacher that:

1. has a need to manage not more than 50 student contacts

> 2. has a need to manage payment details of each student

Reviewer: isn't the original clearer?

Reviewer 3: I think fees and payment about the same so it's fine

3. has a need to keep track of lesson details for each student

> 4. teaches lessons anytime between typical working hours of 8am and 10pm, on any day of the week

Reviewer: I think specifying the timezone shouldn't be removed though

Reviewer 3: I think this was our original intention but I think since the LocalDate/Time objects we were using alll uses System timing, they are not specific to UTC +8 anymore

Expected: Error details will be shown in the status message.

### Navigation

**Navigating the Calendar**

   * Test case: `week`<br>
     Expected: `CenterPanel` displays the week page of the Calendar Interface. 
   
   * Test case: `next`<br>
     Expected: `CenterPanel` displays the Calendar Interface and navigates forward in the calendar.
   
   * Test case: `today`<br>

>      Expected: `CenterPanel` displays the Calendar Interface and jumps to the current day/week/month/year.

Reviewer 3: You don't want to mention `month` and `year`?
